Hi within this lecture we are going to see how we can bring in the V's being in the sprites that we
have created in the game scene to our game scene that swift and how we can give some physical attributes
to the sprite nodes that we have created.
So first of all we have to give them some names.
This is like an I.D..
Okay.
So I'm going to call this bird for example and we don't even need to name the background and T because
we're not going to use them inside of our coding section but we're going to do some operations with
the boxes as well.
So I'm going to name all of these bricks all of these boxes.
So I'm going to call this something simple like Box 1 OK.
And I'm going to go over to here and say Box 2 and this is Box Tree and let's go for a box for over
here.
And finally we have this box five.
So after doing that after giving names I can come over in my game scene that Swift I can call this Sprite
nodes inside of my coding section.
Now again we don't need to name the background and the three because we're not going to be using them
inside of our code.
But if you want.
Of course you can just do that.
And if you want to interact with the background or interact with the tree in some way in your own games
later on you're more than welcome to name them all and work them inside of your coding section.
And again we're going to give some physical attributes like the birds will be affected by gravity because
the biggest advantage of the sprite kids is actually that it lets us to work inside of a physical world
where we have gravity where we have collisions and everything you're going to see what I'm talking about.
First of all let's bring in the bird inside of our did move to function in order to do that.
I'm going to do the same thing I'm going to call this bird and again this will be an escape sprite note
but inside of our deed moved to function I'm going to write something new.
So I'm going to save bird is a child's note.
OK.
So this one.
So this is again an escape note but we're going to give it a name and the name is the idea that we have
just defined.
And then later on we are going to be we're going to cast this to be an SDK sprite note because this
gives us an escape note which is not we want but we want it to be in this case bright note after doing
that we actually define this as a variable like we did it over here of course previously we didn't call
this child mode with name because we haven't had a bird created the inside of our game since that is
scarce.
But this time we have it.
So we can call it this way.
After doing that I'm going to assign the physical world attributes that I have mentioned before.
For example if you come over here and say bird that physics body This will let you access the physical
attributes of the bird.
In fact we're going to have to create the physic body manually later on but for right now I'm going
to show you some attributes of the physics body.
So if you say physics body dumped you will see something like this effected by gravity.
So we have a gravity inside of our physical world.
So if you say true it will be affected by it.
And again we have something called is dynamic.
So this defines whether this body is moved by the physics simulation like if we push it if we can throw
it.
And this is exactly what we want for our Bert and I'm going to call this true and you will see what
I mean once we test this later on and again I'm going to say Bert that physics body OK.
If you say a dot there is a mass attribute.
So we can actually give a mass to our Bert in the KG measure.
So if you say 0 point 5 it will be 500 grams.
OK.
So I don't know if it is too much or too low.
We're going to test this later on.
We're going to throw our Bert into the air.
If it doesn't fly it means that we made it too heavy.
So in order to do all of this we have to define the physics body.
So I'm going to say Burt that physics body and this will be in this gay physics body.
And if you open parentheses it will ask you to create this physics body manually.
So this is like a shape that you draw around your view drawn around your escape sprite.
And in our case our bird looks like a circle.
So I'm going to go for a circle.
But in other cases for example for boxes we're going to go for a rectangle because our boxes are in
the shape of a rectangle.
But our bird looks like a circle right.
So we can go with the circle because it will actually draw a physical body outside of our sprite note
Emery going to see that to test if we made it right or wrong.
So here as you can see we have some poly gowns and everything but I'm going to go for a circle of radius
and we had to give some radius over here.
Of course we can go for something like 5 10.
I don't know about the best way to do that is to drive this from the texture of the bird itself.
So as you can see we have the texture bird.
But remember this texture was too big.
So we made it smaller like 10 times or something and we going to actually do the same thing in here
as well.
I'm going to create that texture over here one more time just to get it size just to get its radius.
OK so I'm going to say S.K. texture and the remember our image name is Bert.
Now I can use this burst texture to get get it size like this bird texture dot size OK that size and
this gives us as e.g. size but this time if you say that height or width and it doesn't matter in this
case because it's kind of a circle.
OK.
Because we're looking for a radius I'm going to divide it by 10 and we're going to see if we made it
right or wrong.
So in order to see this physics body there is a method.
So if I run this right now you won't see the physics body but you will see its effects maybe you realized
that once we run this birds fell off.
So pay attention here you will see the bird but it will fall off as you can see it falls off because
now the gravity of is affecting the bird so it falls off.
So it has a mass and we have a gravity over here and it actually only affects the bird.
So everything stays the same.
But our bird falls off.
So remember we have this minus nine point eight gravity over here.
So let's do it something like minus one interval again fall off but it will be much slower as you can
see it's kind of nice right.
You can actually play with the physical world rules so let's do something like positive 1.
So let's leave this and just write the one and we will have a reverse gravity over here.
So let me run this and you will see that bird is flying upwards.
So this is kind of different to have a positive gravity but I believe you can just do whatever you want
this.
That's your game.
So I'm going to just make it nine point eight one more time to have irregular regular gravity but this
time we're going to see if we made this physics by the right or not because we're creating some physics
body right now.
But we cannot see it.
So again this is like a drawing outside of our circle outside of our escape.
Escape note.
So we may we have to make sure that this falls right a round our SDK notes.
So if you come over here to game with a controller as you can see there are some settings over here
like show FP as show not count and these are the things that I'm talking about so frame per seconds
not count I don't need that I'm gonna delete them rather I'm going to say something like view that show
physics.
Yes.
This one shows physics of course in the real game we don't want that but for debugging purposes it's
good to have so that we can see the physics body that we have created.
So let me run this and we have to make sure our bird stays the same.
So I'm going to make this false so that we can see its SDK physics body and we can decide to make it
smaller or make it bigger.
And here you go.
We have a blue droving over wrapping around our bird over here so this is what I'm talking about.
This is the physics body of course.
This is the representation of the physics body but we have to make sure it wraps around it fits in the
birds.
So I believe this is too much because we're going to have them over here as well and they will collide
with each other so they don't actually collide with each other.
They are physics body collide with each other.
So we have to make sure that this physics buddy is a good fit on our textures.
So we have to be careful with their sizes.
OK.
We don't want them too large or too small we want them just right.
So let's make this something like twelfth and let's see if we can see the blue line fitting on our Bert.
Yeah.
This is better but maybe we can do it something like 13 or 14 as well.
You're more than welcome to try this with your own numbers and have an optimum solution.
So this looks good.
I'm going to live this as it is but I believe maybe we can try with something like 14 or other numbers
as vote.
So for example what if I want to don't lose my bird and don't let it just leave the screen even though
it is affected by gravity for example it falls off but it stays on the screen on the bottom or on the
ground.
So you feel safe soft out physics buddy.
You can just actually control the physics body of DSK seen as well.
So if you can just come over here and say ask a physics buddy you can't choose etch loop from and this
will give you a physics body for your seat.
So if you can just come over here to actually prom and if you can say frame OK not that frame but just
frame it will give you a frame shapes physics buddy and your bird will not fall off or will not just
go high up to the screen it will just create a frame for you so that nothing will leave your screen.
So now we have a frame of course we cannot see it right now but if we make this true if we make sure
this will fall off you will see that it will fall off but it won't leave the screen.
Now we only see the hat of the bird.
So I believe we have a problem over here as well and we're going to take care of that later on.
But right now I know that my bird won't leave the screen because we have a frame covering up our screen
covering up our scene actually.
And if we make this bird a little bit bigger we can see it better.
So let's come over here to our game scene and try to make this a little bit bigger.
OK.
So if we make this a little bit bigger we may have to adjust the physics by the as well.
However we are just experimenting over here so let me make this tree a little bit bigger as well.
Yes.
This looks good.
Maybe a little bit higher.
Yep this is great.
Right now we can try this within our simulator to see birds falling off but hopefully we will just see
the head of the bird this time.
Yep.
We can't see better but it's not good enough.
We're going to take care of that in the next lecture don't worry because we have a problem concerning
of our total less casein over here.
So this won't fit in in the way that we want.
But for right now we know how to deal with ASCII sprite knows how to give them physical attributes in
the next picture re going to do this for older boxes and then we're going to take care of the same problem.
And of course we're going to move on to throw our bird to the air so that they will just hit on the
boxes and get us some points.